The Position
CC&L Private Capital Ltd. is seeking a Private Client Intern to join our Toronto-based Private Client Operations & Technology Team for a 4-month term from September to December 2025.
What do we offer an Intern, Operations & Technology?
A dynamic, fast-paced work environment where opportunities for learning and growth are abound. You will be a member of a collaborative and operations-focused team. This is an opportunity to support our Private Client Operations & Technology team with a variety of tasks and experience the Wealth Management cycle first-hand.
As an Intern, Operations & Technology you will:
Perform data reconciliation, data entry, auditing and compliance for our client portfolios.

Populate and maintain client data in our internal systems (SF, APX).

Assist in troubleshooting internal systems and processes and facilitate support tickets.

Draft documentation for internal processes and identify gaps for improvement.

Provide ad hoc support to our operations and client services teams as needed.

Qualifications and Experience
The Intern, Operations & Technology position is geared toward students either in their third/fourth year of an undergraduate degree or MBA with a focus on Finance, Business Administration, Engineering and/or Economics. We are seeking ambitious students with a strong academic track record, who are interested in making an impact in process efficiencies at CC&L.
In addition to the above, the successful candidate will have:
At least one previous internship experience in the area or Finance, Asset Management and/or Investment Management.

Excellent oral and written communication skills.

Excellent attention to detail.

Strong organizational and time management skills, the ability to multi-task and work autonomously.

Ability to work independently as well as in partnership with other team members, combined with a positive, can-do attitude.

Advanced knowledge of MS Suite, especially Excel, PowerPoint, Word and Adobe Acrobat.

Experience and/or knowledge of JIRA is considered an asset.

Understanding of private client service and investment management practice is considered an asset.
