Research Coordinator I

The Department of Pediatrics in the Women's and Children's Health Program at St. Michael’s Hospital, Unity Health Toronto is committed to innovative clinical research and educational projects which focus on urban Neonatal and Children’s Health, Child Development, Newcomer Health, and Race and Cultural Based Health Inequities. Using a developmental lens, our research spans the continuum of child health and development from the neonatal period, through childhood and youth development.

The Department of Pediatrics is currently looking for a Research Coordinator I to join the Our Kids’ Health Network (OKH). OKH is a social media-based platform that shares evidence-based health information translated and adapted to cultural-linguistic groups.

The role of the Research Coordinator I is to conduct the day-to-day coordination of research activities and implementation of projects involving quantitative and qualitative methodologies, assist with the building of study infrastructure and development of future projects. This individual supports communications and operations of programs. They are responsible for administrative duties pertaining to the projects. Examples of the kind of work include building strong supportive relationships amongst diverse stakeholders and evaluating projects using qualitative and quantitative research skills. The Research Coordinator is responsible for liaising with community partners and coordinating project committees.

Don’t meet every single requirement? Studies have shown that people in underrepresented communities are less likely to apply to jobs when they don’t meet every single qualification. We are dedicated to building an inclusive workplace, so if you’re excited about this role but your past experience doesn’t align perfectly, we still welcome you to apply.

Duties & Responsibilities:

Due to variable nature of position, this list is to be used as a guide only.

Administrative Duties (50% of work time)

Creates trainings, manuals, e-learning content as needed.

Organizes, facilitates, and runs meetings with internal teams, and external stakeholders.

Facilitates the communication plan for internal and external stakeholders. Disseminates information as needed.

Ensures maintenance, collection, transcription, and entry of study related data, in accordance with hospital and privacy regulations.

General office duties e.g., filing, mailings, courier services, ensuring stocked and maintained inventory /supplies/equipment/software.

Designs all source documents (templates, tracking files, forms, guidance documents) for the collection, and management of information/data.

Organizes, sets up, and maintains equipment (e.g. chromebooks/google enterprise).

Research Specific Tasks (40% of work time)

Plans, organizes, directs, controls, and evaluates the activities and operations of scientific research or quality control.

Ongoing coordination of study activities; day to day project management of timelines, resources, deliverables, and study tasks.

Quantitative and qualitative data collection, including designing interview guides, surveys, selecting/screening test sample, cleaning/coding data, and conducting interviews.

Coordinates participants and helps with screening/recruitment.

Liaises with multiple internal and external stakeholders at local and international levels, navigates stakeholder relationships, and responds proactively to anticipated challenges.

Contributes to the presentation of research related information: reports, proposals, publications, presentations, manuscripts, abstracts, newsletters, posters etc.

Helps develop processes, tools (workflow, Gantt charts), and resources to support team members, and projects.

May participate directly in the design, development, and inspection of technical projects, or in the theoretical or applied scientific work of the department.

Helps prepare specifications, presentations, and report preparations in consultation and negotiation with multiple stakeholders.

Troubleshoots/solves logistical and technical obstacles.

Supports proposals (RFP), and grant application process and protocols.

Prepares grant letters of support.



Day to day project and staff guidance tasks (10% of work time)

May train, coordinate, and/or delegate tasks (including overseeing quality control of submitted assignments) to Research Assistants, casual staff, and internal/external collaborators.

May conduct some conflict resolution.

May help review the technical work of the department or project teams.

May develop and implement policies, standards and procedures for the scientific and technical work performed in the department.

Performs cross functional and other duties as assigned and/or requested.

All staff are expected to carry out their assigned duties and responsibilities in a manner which prioritizes patient and employee safety, and confidentiality. Key accountabilities in this regard include:

Strict compliance with patient/employee confidentiality practices and policies.

Strict compliance with patient/employee safety practices and standards.

Appropriate identification, reporting and response to patient/employee confidentiality breaches in accordance with established policies and procedures.

Appropriate identification, reporting and response to patient/employee safety risks and incidents/events in accordance with established policies and procedures.

Qualifications:

Undergraduate Degree and 2 years of relevant experience, OR demonstrable equivalent combination of specialized education and experience.

Spoken and written proficiency in English AND Tagalog required.

Personal or professional experience in health-focused community engagement with Filipino communities.

Health Canada Division 5 is preferred (Completed within first 2 weeks of hire)

TCPS CORE 2 is an asset (Completed within first 2 weeks of hire)

Good clinical practice certificate is an asset (Completed within first 2 weeks of hire)

Basic understanding of science, including applicable theories, frameworks, and models.

Knowledge of healthcare research.

Experience working with a diversity of stakeholders is an asset.

Project coordination skills.

Computer skills with Microsoft Office experience, and database software.

Health communications and social media skills.

Experience with video conferencing software. (Zoom, Microsoft Teams etc.)

Knowledge of survey software (Survey Monkey, Qualtrics, REDCap) is an asset.

Qualitative analysis software (e.g.NVIVO) is an asset.

[Intermediate] Aptitude for analytical problem solving skills.

[Intermediate] Excellent verbal, written, and interpersonal communication skills.

[Intermediate] Awareness and sensitivity to diverse communities and priority populations (BIPOC, LGBT+, people who use drugs, experiencing homelessness or have health issues etc.).

[Intermediate] Empathy and ability to cope with emotionally difficult situations participants may be facing.

[Intermediate] Professional.

[Intermediate] Self-motivated.

[Intermediate] Punctual.

[Basic] Organization skills and ability to manage multiple projects simultaneously.

[Basic] Ability to work in a fast paced, adaptable environment.

[Intermediate] Computer skills.

[Basic] Ability to work independently and as part of a team.

[Basic] Attention to detail.

[Basic] Proven ability to learn new skills.

[Basic] Ability to assimilate new information, and concepts quickly.